Project Scenario

	The East Coast Aircraft Manufacturing Co. (ECAM) produces both civilian and military aircraft for both 
	domestic and international customers. Though the company has been very successful in the past, management 
	recognizes that it will take more than simply high quality aircraft to insure the firm’s future. They 
	understand that cost containment must play a very important role in any project undertaken from this point 
	forward. They also understand that the key to cost containment is data collection and analysis, which will 
	allow them to understand how things are done now and how these internal processes might be improved in the 
	future. To that end, they are considering contracting with your firm to begin the design of an information 
	system to assist them in this effort.

System Requirements
	The system under consideration must allow the management of ECAM to keep close watch on their inventory 
    levels, inventory costs, and labor costs. In order to do this, some basics of the industry must be 
    understood. Each aircraft (hereafter referred to as a program) has its own unique identification 
    number is made up of many, many parts. Each part also has its own unique part number and is associated 
    with one or more programs. Some parts are made by ECAM and others are bought from outside vendors. The 
    company must know, at any time, how many of each part are in stock to make sure that the production 
    schedule can proceed as planned.
	
    Each program has one or more customers. In other words, some aircraft are for the exclusive use of a 
    single customer (e.g. US Navy) while others might be built for many different customers (i.e. single 
    engine trainers for a variety of flight schools). The customers and their past, current, and future orders 
    must be kept track of for marketing and financial purposes.
    
    In addition to having a particular skill and job title, each employee of ECAM might be assigned to one or 
    more projects simultaneously. The number of hours each employee works on each program must be kept track of. 
    Lastly, each part of the aircraft has one or more engineering drawings (or models, for the newer aircraft) 
    associated with it. These engineering drawings are also associated with one or more engineers and are 
    occasionally updated to reflect changes in requirements or other technological improvements. These changes 
    must be tracked and the system must provide a way of insuring that the most current design is being used.



Deliverables
	Each system design will include, but not be limited to, the following components:

1. Requirements analysis, including 10 potential questions for the interviews, abbreviated specifications 
document (a list of requirements gathered from this handout and questions that come up during the analysis).

2. A set of process models including, at a minimum:
	Five Event Diagrams (Use Cases)
	Data Flow Diagrams (High level and detailed)
	A System Diagram (Block diagram of the systems required to complete the project)

3. ERM Diagram

4. Training Plan

5. Security Plan

6. User Interface Design – including screen shots and/or diagrams of the UI

7. Executive Summary 
In addition to these basic requirements, an executive summary describing the methodologies used within the 
group to control the progress and quality of the deliverables, as well as a discussion of any lessons learned 
by the group is required. The project will undergo a public presentation.

